Now that we've implemented a basic Spring Retry configuration,
let's examine which of SaaS Bass's pain points are alleviated by retry.
We'll start by simulating socket exceptions.
In SaaS Bass's case, socket exceptions are caused by a temporary server overload.
The server is shedding incoming requests until it
has the resources to handle them.
Let's see if adding basic retry has alleviated this pain point for SaaS Bass.
To follow along with this demo for the Bass Tracker Service,
check out the adding-retry-to-rest-template-socket-exception branch.
For the Lake Profile Service,
also check out the adding-retry-to-rest-template-socket-exception branch.
Here in the Lake Profile Service's Endpoint class,
we've simulated a temporary server overload by throwing a socket exception
the first two times each POST and GET request are made.
After the first two attempts,
the GET and POST endpoints can proceed handling their requests.
Let's run the lake-profile-service.
Now, let's switch over to the bass-tracker-service.
We haven't made any modifications for this simulation,
so we should expect that the CommandLineRunner will attempt to
create the LakeProfile in a separate thread,
wait for 3 seconds, and then try to get the newly created profile.
If either request fails, it should retry up to three times.
Let's run it and see what happens.
Sure enough, we see that each request is attempted three times,
and because we set up the Lake Profile endpoints to throw a socket exception,
only the first two attempts were able to create and get the Lake Profile
successfully in the event of a temporary socket exception, thanks to Spring Retry.